README.md, before:

# Pokemon Explorer Application

## Project Setup and Running Instructions

## Design and Component Decisions

### Structure

client components:

- search.jsx
- pagination.jsx

I have made a weird decision in terms of rendering the pages of pokemon, I have used a URL-based method to remember which page to return to when after selecting "return home" on the detailed pokemon page. However, it would be inefficient to constantly use this method to change pages as it would require re-rendering from the server, therefore, I have chosen to have a client-side update of the pages of pokemon, but only on return update the URL.

### Components

The first thing I did to start this project was read through the shadcn/UI docs as I had not previously used this package. On looking through the components I noticed a lot of similarities to the Figma design. Therefore, I actively matched different parts of the Figma design to the different components before even beginning to code. These are shown here:

- Pokemon Type: _Badge_
- Pagiation: _Buttons_
- Search Bar: _Input + Button_
- Pokemon Sections (Both on main page and after search): _Cards_
- Pokemon Details Stats: _Progress_
- Loading State Indicators: _Skeletons/Progress??????_ TODO CHECK THIS AT END

### Interpretations/Deviations

## State Management Approach

I chose to take all the information about the pokemon required for each page

Originally, I was loading all the pokemon data from the server-side as I read that keeping as many components as possible as server-components is ideal. However, when I started using state from within the "poke-card-layout" to hold the page number, and stopped individually rendering each page of pokemon from the server-side and began loading the API calls client-side within this component, based on the page number state, it performed far more efficiently with a noticable performance improvement. It updates when either the pageNum or the SearchBar updates.

## API Interactions Strategy

I have a very basic helper function that is being used to make all of the connections to the API, which are all called from a seperate component that is then

I chose to have all of the pokemon and their data loaded in one big API fetch server-side at the beginning, to load the list of pokemon, and then passed the data down to the "card" component to save state and display the pokemon. This saved rendering time, as although it is a large component with many concurrent fetches in "Promise.all" it

## Challenges Encountered

I AM SO CONFUSED - DO I NEED A "PAGES" DIRECTORY OR NOT???? THE NEXT JS DOCS SAY I DO, BUT THEN OTHER THINGS SAY THAT I NEED TO HAVE ALL PAGES IN "app" I DO NOT UNDERSTAND

### Following Next best practices

Originally, I implemented all of the fetches on the client-side, as I realised that any hooks used had to be in a client component, and I thought that to correctly store state (as is the requirements), I had to immediately save this data. However, as I went on and did more research into Next, I came to the conclusion that fetching all the data server-side and passing it through the components and storing state on the client-side at the furthest possible leaf-node component was the ideal structure to follow, so I went through and changed my code completely.

### React Hooks

Having been a while since using React, I had to relearn how to use Hooks and which files they can be used in (client/server components), as well as the best file structure and layout to enable use of State for the information from the API as well having successful fetches.
TODO ADD MORE DATA HERE.

Since Next.js always defaults to having all files as server components to improve performance, this was trickier for me to debug having not remembered this. IMPORTANT INFORMATION BUT NOT SURE HOW TO PHRASE

SOME OF THIS IS ACTUALLY JUST REACT STUFF SO MAYBE I SHOULDN'T SAY IT?????

- This link explains use client and use server: https://react.dev/reference/rsc/use-client#serializable-types

### Client vs Server Side Components

I chose to create a custom hook to handle the API access for the website. I thought this would be most efficient in terms of space and calling of the function. However, I encountered a lot of issues with then transferring the data from the client component API call into the server component web pages.

Maybe talk about choice to not Server Side Render (SSR) the pages, despite it increasing performance and ensuring all pages are rendered on the first time, there is not a lot of need for it when it is such a basic page. Furthermore, since the instructions clearly state to store the pokemon information in the web pages state it is not appropriate to do this. Additionally, the dynamic interaction whereby each pokemon needs to be individually selectable is easier and better to do in a client-side rendered component as compared to one

### Next File Structure

I had a surprising amount of trouble correctly organising the file structure for Next. Having built previous applications with a Laravel PHP backend, and so following a Model-View-Controller structure, I found it harder than expected to decipher the docs on how I should be organising routes and file structure.

### Inability to match Figma

There are certain aspects (such as Bulbasaurs description) which are impossible to match from the original design as it doesn't exist in the PokeAPI, so I had to make substitutions from what was available on the API.
List:

- Bulbasaur's description could not be found within the list of descriptions for that Pokemon on the API.

## Bonus Features

### Loading state indicators

I imported these as a shadcn component and simply added a "if (!_state_) { return Spinner }" which would render anytime the calls to the API were still being made, and the state hadn't been updated. Additionally, on the initial server side call, I added a default "loading.js" page to the "app" directory which will always show the spinner and the bare-bones components when loading.

### Display Pokemon Images

I didn't do this in the most efficient way and simply used an image tag with the API URL within it, which I took from the initial calls. I'm sure finding a way to pass the real images would have been more efficient, and have less API calls, however this functioned well for this use case and only 12 pokemon per page layout ensuring not too many calls were made.

MAYBE CHANGE THIS

### Search Functionality

To implement the search I used a "query" that was added as part of the URL, this was then sent to the components, via the main page, and the API was called. The API returned a full list of the basic information and all the pokemon names, which were then filtered to find only those that contained the input. These were then subsequently called for further information to display the Poke Cards of all the data.

I did not have to implement any kind of debouncing method, due to the desired Figma layout which used a "Search" button, as opposed to a simple input. If there was further time, I would implement the search bar to continuously update a list as the user types, however this didn't seem relevant in this project.

## Self-Reflections

### Stuff I am proud of:

- Saving the query in the URL to ensure that when you select "return home", the query is saved in case the user wants to view other pokemon.
- I am very happy with how accurate I got the styling to the Figma design. I spent a long time making it as accurate as possible as I knew this was a key marking point and I believe I was very successful.
- Having the loading screens with the spinner match up identically with one another for the primary server-side render of the page and then the subsequent API call wasn't easy, however it was achieved. The spinner therefore seems almost seamless between the two separate loading stages, when in fact it is not.

### If I had more time I would:

- Add error handling for ALL API calls
- Correct the layout so somehow the "pokemon" state in "poke-card-layout" was stored while looking at a specific "pokemon-details" rather than having to reload from the page number on return. This would be more efficient. I could have done this by passing the entire list of pokemon into the Pokemon Details page, however I would then have to pass this back and it would make the URL exceedingly long and seemed like a bad way of doing this.
- Add a server-side render on the first run to improve efficiency. The code is actually here to do this, my "fetch-pokemon" function actually works both server and client side, however to then pass the data into the PokeCardLayout wasn't easy to do, and didn't seem worth it given the time-frame.
- (as mentioned above) have the search bar continuously refresh a page of all the items as opposed to simply waiting for "Search" to be pressed.
- Increase compatability with different screen sizes by using more complex tailwind CSS to account for the layouts (sm:, md:, lg:, etc.).

### Errors that I am aware of:

- If you search and there are more than 12 results, it will show all of the results on a single page
- The pokemon weaknesses do not match those in the Figma. This is because I had to select the weaknesses based on a singular type rather than multiple, as each type has it's own list of weaknesses in the API. Perhaps there was some data in the API calls that I missed to find the correct weaknesses, however I couldn't find it myself and I had to move on to other issues.
- (as mentioned above) The descriptions do not match those in the Figma - again as I could not find the correct one on the API.

## AI Usage

I wanted to add this small section to discuss my personal usage of AI throughout the development process.

## Questions

I had a few personal questions about Next JS conventions that I couldn't find online. Since this is my first time using it, I was hoping you may be able to address them for me:

-

Commit message:

Minor bug fixes and Clone Instructions in README
Made minor bug fixes found in 'npm run build' and then added the clone and startup instructions to the README

README.md, after:

# Pokemon Explorer Application

## Project Setup and Running Instructions

- git clone "https://github.com/LaurieBB/PokemonExplorerApplication"
- cd "poke-explore-app"
- npm run build
- npm start
- navigate to "http://localhost:3000" as instructed

## Design and Component Decisions

### Structure

client components:

- search.jsx
- pagination.jsx

I have made a weird decision in terms of rendering the pages of pokemon, I have used a URL-based method to remember which page to return to when after selecting "return home" on the detailed pokemon page. However, it would be inefficient to constantly use this method to change pages as it would require re-rendering from the server, therefore, I have chosen to have a client-side update of the pages of pokemon, but only on return update the URL.

### Components

The first thing I did to start this project was read through the shadcn/UI docs as I had not previously used this package. On looking through the components I noticed a lot of similarities to the Figma design. Therefore, I actively matched different parts of the Figma design to the different components before even beginning to code. These are shown here:

- Pokemon Type: _Badge_
- Pagiation: _Buttons_
- Search Bar: _Input + Button_
- Pokemon Sections (Both on main page and after search): _Cards_
- Pokemon Details Stats: _Progress_
- Loading State Indicators: _Skeletons/Progress??????_ TODO CHECK THIS AT END

### Interpretations/Deviations

- I believe the only deviation from the Figma was in the layout of the Weaknesses, as there were more than were anticipated (for the example Bulbasaur at least), for reasons I will discuss below. To account for the greater numbers, they had to be arranged as a grid, however I left the desired list format commented out above this line, so it can easily be reinstated later, if the bug is resolved.

## State Management Approach

I chose to take all the information about the pokemon required for each page

Originally, I was loading all the pokemon data from the server-side as I read that keeping as many components as possible as server-components is ideal. However, when I started using state from within the "poke-card-layout" to hold the page number, and stopped individually rendering each page of pokemon from the server-side and began loading the API calls client-side within this component, based on the page number state, it performed far more efficiently with a noticable performance improvement. It updates when either the pageNum or the SearchBar updates.

## API Interactions Strategy

I have a very basic helper function that is being used to make all of the connections to the API, which are all called from a seperate component that is then

I chose to have all of the pokemon and their data loaded in one big API fetch server-side at the beginning, to load the list of pokemon, and then passed the data down to the "card" component to save state and display the pokemon. This saved rendering time, as although it is a large component with many concurrent fetches in "Promise.all" it

## Challenges Encountered

I AM SO CONFUSED - DO I NEED A "PAGES" DIRECTORY OR NOT???? THE NEXT JS DOCS SAY I DO, BUT THEN OTHER THINGS SAY THAT I NEED TO HAVE ALL PAGES IN "app" I DO NOT UNDERSTAND

### Following Next best practices

Originally, I implemented all of the fetches on the client-side, as I realised that any hooks used had to be in a client component, and I thought that to correctly store state (as is the requirements), I had to immediately save this data. However, as I went on and did more research into Next, I came to the conclusion that fetching all the data server-side and passing it through the components and storing state on the client-side at the furthest possible leaf-node component was the ideal structure to follow, so I went through and changed my code completely.

### React Hooks

Having been a while since using React, I had to relearn how to use Hooks and which files they can be used in (client/server components), as well as the best file structure and layout to enable use of State for the information from the API as well having successful fetches.
TODO ADD MORE DATA HERE.

Since Next.js always defaults to having all files as server components to improve performance, this was trickier for me to debug having not remembered this. IMPORTANT INFORMATION BUT NOT SURE HOW TO PHRASE

SOME OF THIS IS ACTUALLY JUST REACT STUFF SO MAYBE I SHOULDN'T SAY IT?????

- This link explains use client and use server: https://react.dev/reference/rsc/use-client#serializable-types

### Client vs Server Side Components

I chose to create a custom hook to handle the API access for the website. I thought this would be most efficient in terms of space and calling of the function. However, I encountered a lot of issues with then transferring the data from the client component API call into the server component web pages.

Maybe talk about choice to not Server Side Render (SSR) the pages, despite it increasing performance and ensuring all pages are rendered on the first time, there is not a lot of need for it when it is such a basic page. Furthermore, since the instructions clearly state to store the pokemon information in the web pages state it is not appropriate to do this. Additionally, the dynamic interaction whereby each pokemon needs to be individually selectable is easier and better to do in a client-side rendered component as compared to one

### Next File Structure

I had a surprising amount of trouble correctly organising the file structure for Next. Having built previous applications with a Laravel PHP backend, and so following a Model-View-Controller structure, I found it harder than expected to decipher the docs on how I should be organising routes and file structure.

### Inability to match Figma

There are certain aspects (such as Bulbasaurs description) which are impossible to match from the original design as it doesn't exist in the PokeAPI, so I had to make substitutions from what was available on the API.
List:

- Bulbasaur's description could not be found within the list of descriptions for that Pokemon on the API.

## Bonus Features

### Loading state indicators

I imported these as a shadcn component and simply added a "if (!_state_) { return Spinner }" which would render anytime the calls to the API were still being made, and the state hadn't been updated. Additionally, on the initial server side call, I added a default "loading.js" page to the "app" directory which will always show the spinner and the bare-bones components when loading.

### Display Pokemon Images

I didn't do this in the most efficient way and simply used an image tag with the API URL within it, which I took from the initial calls. I'm sure finding a way to pass the real images would have been more efficient, and have less API calls, however this functioned well for this use case and only 12 pokemon per page layout ensuring not too many calls were made.

MAYBE CHANGE THIS

### Search Functionality

To implement the search I used a "query" that was added as part of the URL, this was then sent to the components, via the main page, and the API was called. The API returned a full list of the basic information and all the pokemon names, which were then filtered to find only those that contained the input. These were then subsequently called for further information to display the Poke Cards of all the data.

I did not have to implement any kind of debouncing method, due to the desired Figma layout which used a "Search" button, as opposed to a simple input. If there was further time, I would implement the search bar to continuously update a list as the user types, however this didn't seem relevant in this project.

## Self-Reflections

### Stuff I am proud of:

- Saving the query in the URL to ensure that when you select "return home", the query is saved in case the user wants to view other pokemon.
- I am very happy with how accurate I got the styling to the Figma design. I spent a long time making it as accurate as possible as I knew this was a key marking point and I believe I was very successful.
- Having the loading screens with the spinner match up identically with one another for the primary server-side render of the page and then the subsequent API call wasn't easy, however it was achieved. The spinner therefore seems almost seamless between the two separate loading stages, when in fact it is not.

### If I had more time I would:

- Add error handling for ALL API calls
- Correct the layout so somehow the "pokemon" state in "poke-card-layout" was stored while looking at a specific "pokemon-details" rather than having to reload from the page number on return. This would be more efficient. I could have done this by passing the entire list of pokemon into the Pokemon Details page, however I would then have to pass this back and it would make the URL exceedingly long and seemed like a bad way of doing this.
- Add a server-side render on the first run to improve efficiency. The code is actually here to do this, my "fetch-pokemon" function actually works both server and client side, however to then pass the data into the PokeCardLayout wasn't easy to do, and didn't seem worth it given the time-frame.
- (as mentioned above) have the search bar continuously refresh a page of all the items as opposed to simply waiting for "Search" to be pressed.
- Increase compatability with different screen sizes by using more complex tailwind CSS to account for the layouts (sm:, md:, lg:, etc.).

### Errors that I am aware of:

- If you search and there are more than 12 results, it will show all of the results on a single page
- The pokemon weaknesses do not match those in the Figma. This is because I had to select the weaknesses based on a singular type rather than multiple, as each type has it's own list of weaknesses in the API. Perhaps there was some data in the API calls that I missed to find the correct weaknesses, however I couldn't find it myself and I had to move on to other issues.
- (as mentioned above) The descriptions do not match those in the Figma - again as I could not find the correct one on the API.

## AI Usage

I wanted to add this small section to discuss my personal usage of AI throughout the development process.

## Questions

I had a few personal questions about Next JS conventions that I couldn't find online. Since this is my first time using it, I was hoping you may be able to address them for me:

-
